After having a look at Buttons lists list items in the grid.
I know when I have a close look at gestures we can use.
So far we often use the normal click event which of course is also fired if we touch element.
Let's see which average listeners we have and when we might want to use which for this I'm going to
add some content to the top of this home component here again so that we can see how to use that.
And I will yet add a new day of year which I'll give a class of gestures which I'll quickly give some
styling and years of them we can see the death and I simply want to give it a width of 100 percent a
height of let's say 30 pixels.
And the background color of light green light gray green like this.
So if we do this I placed one day of in there you should see the DiStefano appears here at the top.
Now on this death I'll say click me and I'll add a normal click listener as we did many times before.
Unbuttons And of course we can add it to any element like the staff here.
So here I will say on element clicked and of course again this all means it fires if we touch it on
a mobile device.
This is the same event.
So on element clicked and here we can then say console log.
I was liked or touched to make sure too that it's really clear that this is the same on a mobile device.
So if we do this and we go back to our application and it click on it you see what clicked or touched
on the right.
So this clearly works no matter where we touch it.
Now you are probably aware that there are more gestures we can do on a mobile device we can long press
an element who can swipe it.
We can pan.
So there are different features or different gestures we can execute.
Let's look into them here and actually can find an article in the component documentation to learn more
about it for example here.
Here you see all available gestures you can listen to by simply adding the appropriate event listeners
to any element.
For example tap breastpin swipe rotate and pinch.
Now I won't be able to demonstrate them all here with a mouse because for some of them you need more
fingers for example pinch but the ones I can demonstrate here I will demonstrate the other ones are
of course things you can try out after the next section when you learned how to run this on a real device.
Let's start with the tap event.
I'm going to add a new Dith simply duplicate the first one like this and here I will not listen to a
click but to a tap and that will add a new listener on elements tapped like this.
And also add the appropriate method here of course in the typewriter class so that I can say I was tapped.
Now if I say this and I let the application rebuild we should be able to see a new death year and if
I click on it I get I was tapped.
So what's different between tapping and clicking then.
Because it obviously does the same here.
I'll come back to this in a second.
Let's have a look at the number gesture first on a change just to tap me instead of click mesons just
seems more appropriate.
As for listening to a tap event.
So I'm going to add a new div and on this I'm going to say Long press me does the name of to get gesture
kind of and I'm going to listen to the press event I'm also executing a method here on element press.
Let's say let's also add this math therefore.
And if I add this year I can now execute the code and print something to the console.
I was pressed so let's do this now.
If I save this and I go back to the application I can now click on it and you don't see anything in
a console but if I click and hold us for a couple of seconds you'll see Iowas pressed on the right.
So now this list is for the duration of our press and not just for if we tapped or clicked on there.
This now also allows me to show you the difference between tap and click.
I'm going to the same of the one where I say long press me and I'm going to at the click Lisner here
where I execute on element clicked.
So now I have two listeners on the same event which of course is perfectly fine.
And now let's see what happens if I now go to this div which says Long press me and I long press on
it.
You see I was pressed but you'll see I was clicked or touched.
So both fired even though.
Well we are pressing it.
We're not tapping it.
And this is the key difference between click and tap click will always be fired when you touch an element
no matter how long you do that which might be the behavior you want.
But if you want to differentiate between a long and a short touch even and you have to use tap and press
and not click and press because click will always be executed.
Now you will see that only one of the two will execute since I had a tap instead of click.
So now I have press and tap.
And now if I press shortly on it you see I was tapped and overhaul for a couple of milliseconds.
You see I was pressed.
So either of the two fires not both.
So again this is the difference between clicking and tapping.
And this might be important for your app if it doesn't matter if you don't need that differentiation
always using clicking as we did before.
Is of course absolutely fine.
Nothing wrong with that.
Now as you can see in documentation there are more events you can listen to for example swiping rotating
pinching and panning.
And again you will need to test some of them on a mobile device because you need more than one thing
or for pinching for example.
These are different gestures.
I want to make swayable to you which should allow you to fine tune the app to your needs.